IBX-10684: Document translation management (#3249)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0.md

<div class="release-notes" markdown="1">

[[% set version = 'v5.0.10' %]]

> [[% set date = '2026-07-30' %]]

Reviewer: Friendly reminder about date

[[= release_note_entry_begin(
    'Translations management ' + version,
    date,
    ['Headless', 'Experience', 'Commerce', 'LTS Update', 'New feature', 'First release']
) =]]

> Translations management is a new LTS Update that extends [[= product_name =]]'s built-in language management tools with machine translation, a side-by-side editing view, and a command-line translation utility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Translations management is a new LTS Update that extends Ibexa DXP's built-in language management tools with machine translation, a side-by-side editing view, and a command-line translation utility.
```
To avoid getting `Cohesivo` here in 6.0 branch

Author: ~~We're aiming at 5.0 for now - for 6.0 this doc will need to be rewritten to remove mentions of LTS Update and include additional features that are in the making~~

You're right, I will replace other instances, too.

### CLI translation command

A new console command translates content items from the command line, enabling batch processing and automated workflows.

For more information, see [Translate content items with CLI](configure_translations_management.md#translate-content-items-with-cli).

### Translation review

When a draft is created through automatic translation, it receives the "For review" status.
Editors can accept or reject the translation in the side-by-side view, which displays a review bar.
Accepted translations are given the "Translated" status.

The **Versions** tab shows a **Translation status** column with review status badges for draft translations created with automatic translation.

For more information, see [Translation review](configure_translations_management.md#translation-review).

### Developer experience

The package exposes multiple extension points for custom translation workflows, including:

- Custom translation providers through `TranslationProviderInterface`
- Custom field type support through `FieldValueTransformerInterface`

> - Custom content type exclusion rules through `SideBySideExclusionRuleInterface`

Reviewer: Once PHP API ref is available, let's add the links to it here

- extension points for adding UI elements and fields to the views used by the feature

> For more information, see [Extend translations management](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/translations/extend_translations_management/).

Reviewer: This link won't work (the articles are in `/multisite`)

Author: Moved the release notes to the release branch (fixed there)
